The way we sell software changed. Before
if you are selling a SAS product, the
marginal cost was very little to sell to
another company and or to sell another
product. But with AI, the the new gross
margins are lower because it comes with
a cost to sell sell to another person.
So that means everyone has less margins.
Maybe that changes over time. Models
might get cheaper. And if you can have
like people have stick stickier
workflows, maybe the margins go up over
time.
[Music]
Hey everybody at Saster Finn is the
number one AI agent for resolving
complex queries like refunds,
transaction disputes, and technical
troubleshooting all with speed and
reliability. See how Finn can deliver
the highest resolution rates and highest
quality customer experience at
finn.ai/saster.
That's f.ai/saster.
The biggest B2B and AI event of the year
is back. It's the Saster AI Summit in
the SFB area, aka the SAS annual. It'll
be back in May 2026 with 36% of everyone
coming, CEOs. It's an incredible AI
first professional event. The very, very
best S tier folks will be there talking
about, sharing, and learning how to
scale AI and B2B in this new world. But
here's the reality. The longer you wait,
the higher ticket prices go up. They're
really cheap in the beginning and then,
you know, just a few days before they
get kind of expensive, but you've been
warned. Early bird tickets are available
now, and I want to see you there. Once
they're gone, you'll pay hundreds more.
So, book your spot today by going to
podcast.sanual.com.
That's podcast.sanual.com
to get your exclusive discounts for
Sasterai
SF2026.
We will see you there.
Thank you to Saster for having us. It is
great to be here. I'm Talia Goldberg.
I'm a partner at Bessemer and I'm very
excited to do this panel with our
friends at Anthropic Cursor and Fall. So
before we jump in, if you guys just give
like your quick bios, that'd be awesome.
Nice to meet everyone. My name is Kelly
Loftess and I lead the startup sales
team at Anthropic. I've had the
privilege over the last year and a half
working and scaling our startups team
and so very excited to be here today.
>> Hi everyone, my name is Jacob.
I first got my start in AI making tab 9
uh back in 2018. Then I worked at OpenAI
as a researcher and then did Super Maven
about a year ago and then uh around 8
months ago we joined Cursor and so I've
been working there on machine learning
since then.
Hi everyone, my name is Gertam. I'm the
CTO and co-founder of FAL.
FAL is a generative media platform. We
host open and closed source image and
video models in our platform and expose
them as easy to use APIs to the end
users using our inference engine.
>> Awesome. I love having the three of you
because all of these businesses are
enabling this wave of AI and developers,
they're always leading at every at every
era of innovation. And so I I want to
start this off
actually by sharing a conversation that
I was having with Gorkum while we were
driving up here. And Gorham was like,
"Gosh, UVC's like the metrics are
totally broken." Like all the metrics,
all the questions we get asked, they're
wrong because the businesses look
different today. And we have these SAS
metrics that looked at things like C and
you know gross margin like this and and
had you know very clear good better best
metrics and you know lo and behold we
have three wildly successful companies
that have broken the norm. So Gorgam
tell me to start like what is broken
and then maybe we can chat a little bit
about what metrics actually matter for
all of you. I think the biggest
difference now is companies are growing
much faster, right? I think it used to
be triple double double or or you know
if you tripled in a year that was
considered gold standard and now it's
so many companies are breaking up going
from zero to 50 million like really
really fast. I I think that's the
biggest difference but also no one in AI
really has 80% 90% gross margins because
the way we sell software changed before
if you are selling a SAS product the
marginal cost was very little to sell to
another company and or to sell another
product. But with AI, the the new gross
margins are lower because it comes with
a cost to sell sell to another person.
So that means everyone has less margins.
Maybe that changes over time. Models
might get cheaper and if you can have
like people have stick stickier
workflows, maybe the margins go up over
time. But currently it seems like
everyone has less margins than
traditional SAS. But everyone is growing
like crazy and there's like other
implications of this to how people build
sales teams. Seems like there's so much
demand for AI that people don't need
these massive sales teams and they can
get things done with much leaner leaner
teams.
>> I want to touch on two things you said.
One, we'll talk a little bit about all
of your team structures and just some
tactics on how you've built up go to
market and sales. But before we do that,
you mentioned this concept of wow like
the gross margins are lower and it's
because the cost to serve each customer
also it's not you know effectively zero
as it was with the SAS model. It's it's
different. There's a real cost and that
is there's a really weird dynamic that
creates which is that your best
customers in some ways become your worst
customers because they're causing a lot
of cost in your system. And I think as a
result from we've seen a lot of
experimentation with pricing models and
you're seeing this ideas of like value
based pricing and cap you know maybe
more usage based pricing.
Maybe share with me from anthropics and
cursor's viewpoint because I know cursor
has been experimenting too with having a
more usage based model not just the 20
or $40 a month. How are you thinking
about that? And what do you think this
looks like a year from now or two years
from now?
>> Yeah, it's really hard to predict. I
mean, if you look at where things were a
year ago, uh one year ago there was no
uh sonnet 3.5 and look at where we've
come since then where just a huge number
of tokens are flowing through that
model. And where are things uh going to
be in a year, two years from now? As
forum says, it's not like traditional
software where you're when you receive
$10 from the customer, you have to
spend, you know, 10 cents in AWS costs
to provide that. These GPUs are are
expensive and they have a real footprint
in electricity and heat and that's not
going to change. Um the way I would
think about it is just you know you look
at the value that's
being delivered to the customer and then
you look at the
the stack that produces that value and
you look at you know the total value
being created by the technology which is
you know large and quickly growing and
then you just think how can we increase
that value and how can we be part of
that supply chain
that takes the electricity and converts
it into something that is useful to
people.
>> Yeah.
>> So, do you think there could be like uh
if if the average software engineer, I
don't know, let's make up a number.
Let's say someone's, you know, gets paid
$150,000 a year. How much do you think
you the you could charge for cursor in
in a year from now or or the the best
users, the highest value users?
>> That's a really good question. And you
know, when when I first started selling
the developer tools for, you know, a
flat price of $49, it's like, well, how
much does this need to increase your
productivity to be worth it? It's like
01% and it's worth it.
I think
I think when you consider it relative to
a developer salary, you know, I think
many people have been accelerated more
than 2x technology already
and the technology is only going to get
better. So I think comparing it to the
developer salary is the right way to
look at it. One thing we we realize I
think this is true for cursor and
anthropics case too. Instead of models
getting cheaper, yes, maybe the running
the same model got cheaper, but people
trained much bigger models that are much
more expensive to run now and people
expect to use the best model. So running
inference in general maybe 100x in cost
like this happens for us in our use case
for video models. Uh like yes the image
models we had a year ago and now it's
super cheap to run but now because we
have much more demanding video models
the margins even got actually lower
because it's so expensive to run these
models people
demand them. So the the inference costs
got much larger.
I have a saying at Bessemer that I
started saying a year ago, which is that
cogs are the new CAC, which is that you
could spend a lot on on COGS, but it
means that you also can't then be
spending a lot on CAC in customer
acquisition because if you have low
margins and really high acquisition
costs, that's tricky. But the good news
is all of your products, they kind of
sell themselves. And so it's uh it's a
little bit of a trade-off. But it is
funny. I I I thought a year ago, you
know, we're on this cost curve of of
models getting cheaper and cheaper and
so I anticipated that the margins of
some of our companies would actually
increase and that it was okay that they
had low margins and it turns out they've
stayed really low.
>> Yeah.
>> Um and they've stayed low because of
exactly what you said, which is the cost
to serve, the models are getting better,
but and people are using them more, but
that equation hasn't held.
like advancements in software are always
faster than advancements in hardware. So
maybe the next generation of chips are
going to make things more cost effective
but developments on the modeling side is
much happening much much faster. So it
is getting more expensive to run the
best model if
>> Yeah. Awesome.
So Kelly when you joined Anthropic I
think how many people were on the go to
market team? Yeah, Anthropic itself was
about 250 people and there were less
than 10 people on the go to market team
>> and today how many people are there at
Anthropic and
>> about 1300 at Anthropic? Probably 150 or
so on the go to market team. So crazy
scaling over the last year and a half.
>> That's crazy. And can you share with us
one thing that has been really
interesting to think through is like how
do you structure your go to market team?
>> When I joined we did not have the
concept of quotas. It's just hard to
pick a number on what you want to
actually measure each rep by. And so
what I did when I started was let's just
build a team around feedback and doing
everything that is for the better
knowing that this team is going to scale
from 10 people to hundreds. And so
really focusing on that and keeping that
in mind. And we still don't really have
quotas. We have shadow targets. It's
really hard and difficult to predict
exactly what is happening. The adoption
is fast. A lot of this is driven by the
model intelligence which you cannot
predict over a long time period. So it's
been extremely difficult but really
rallying people around the mission and
being super clear about what we care
about is getting feedback on our models
and continuing to work with partners to
push the model capabilities forward and
that comes from a lot of the startups we
work with.
>> No no quotas at Anthropic.
>> No quotas at Anthropic today. That might
change everything in this space. I feel
like as soon as you say it, it's already
outdated. But just shadow targets today.
>> Okay. So, no one got, you know, a quote,
no one got a a commission for selling to
cursor.
>> No one did.
>> And
actually, maybe just quickly would love
to hear the structure for you too as
well.
>> I have a funny story about this
actually. beginning of this year, we
were looking to hire a head of sales and
like any good head of sales candidate,
people were trying to negotiate a cod
system because we were growing so fast
and we thought, okay, maybe we had grown
really fast until that point and we
thought, okay, maybe doubling next year
would be a good target. And we said
like, okay, maybe maybe we're going to
double and that would be the OT. And
during like the interviews and during
negotiations, we grew maybe 50%. So we
were like almost halfway there already.
And then we decided okay this is
useless. We are not doing kodas. It's
impossible to predict. One thing now we
are experimenting. Maybe we can do
shorter term kodas meaning maybe
quarterly or monthly kodas rather than
yearly. Whereas it's more predictable.
You can course correct if something
changes
but right now we are also not not doing
codas. Everyone's giving on target
earnings basically. Yeah.
Yeah. At cursor
many of our first enterprise customers
bought cursor because their developers
came to their management and they said
we need this tool or in many cases they
were already using it. But we are
growing the sales or a lot because there
are a lot of companies where you know
the developers can't necessarily make
their own decisions about the tool but
they can still be substantially
accelerated by this and so we need to
reach everyone.
>> Yeah.
The the quota system
part of the reason it's there is you
know to to incentivize the behavior that
you want and there's always good
incentives and bad incentives. So it's a
it's a tricky system no matter what. And
one of the benefits you have is that a
lot of this there's so much demand that
a lot of this for all three of you is
really filling the demand versus
generating it. But in getting the right
team members early on that have the
share the same incentives like that is
probably the prerequisite to saying we
don't need a system you know around this
because we're all aligned. And so I'm
curious for each of you, are there any
any things whether it's like small
tactics or
questions or ways that you've assessed
people not just for go to market but
even for R&D or any area that says hey
like this is a person that would be a
good fit at cursor or a good fit at
anthropic and might actually you know
not be a good fit at openai. On the
sales side at Cursor, we have a very
technical sales team and that's partly
because it's a technical product and so
it's helpful when the saleserson
understands that well, but it's also
because you know there's a lot of ways
the sales process can be accelerated
with software and
with cursor.
And so many people in our sales or are
also building tools to help a sales or
using cursor and uh I think that's a
trend that will continue.
>> Any specific examples on that of like
what tools are helping automate your go
to market team?
>> One we use AI to help qualify inbound
leads is one thing.
>> That's great. One thing that worked
really well for us, Talia, is we have a
small research team now. And most of the
people we hired for that research team
is through our research grants program.
So we we it's open invitation. You can
basically just send us an email with a
project you have in mind. And we care
about let's call it efficient AI. It's
either efficient finding finetuning in
techniques or efficient inference. And
if you have, you know, a research idea
around that or maybe if you like it, it
could be an adjacent area as well. And
we give you compute for a couple of
weeks for you to like submit a project.
And we hired maybe four people through
that research grants program and has
been really useful for us. We have no
string strings attached, no
expectations, but people have been doing
great projects and we ended up hiring
them.
>> That's a genius tactic.
>> Works.
>> I really like that.
>> Yeah, I like the topic on how are people
using AI within their day-to-day. I'm
curious on your end or what's the
coolest use cases uh within all of our
companies that people are using AI in
their day-to-day to help speed up
different workflows or augment them? We
are trying a lot of different sales
tools to automate
email marketing or automate. Okay, you
you check the pricing page now you get
an email like things like that. Maybe
you don't even need AI to do those but a
lot of the next generation tools are all
AI enabled. So you probably subscribe to
like three four of them trying to see if
any of them works better. But it's still
on the experimentation phase and I know
some companies can do this really well.
We're really excited about background
agent. But with this feature, you can
give tasks to AI that it will complete
asynchronously and you can have multiple
running at once. And then
you can check in on the progress and
easily, for example, you know, if it's
90% right, 10% is off, you can very
easily drop into what the AI has been
doing, bring it into your editor and
correct it. So it has this property that
you can very easily steer and um fix any
mistakes which I think is really
important because these models are
really really smart and they're getting
smarter but they do still make mistakes
sometimes and sometimes you know they
don't really perfectly understand what
you wanted and so being able to correct
it and be and stay in control was really
important.
>> Yeah it's very across both the technical
and non-technical org. One of the
favorite use cases is the Slack channel
that we spun up. And what this Slack
channel does is employees can go in, ask
questions Claude is on the back end and
uses to go search over our internal
knowledge bases and then retrieve and
answer the employees question. It's been
extremely useful for productivity. So
folks can get a really great in-depth
answer really quickly that they would
have otherwise had to ask a busy manager
or busy engineer. And so it's been
extremely great for time to onboard and
just across especially across time zones
as well. Were there any really key
decisions you know all of your companies
like you've totally broken the norms of
revenue per FTE like in such wild ways
it totally breaks the brain across you
know all all three of these companies.
So obviously you've had a lot of
success,
but there's definitely in every startup
journey inevitably there's these
challenging points in the road. I'm sure
there will continue to be, but were
there any key decisions that you can
think of that you go back to that you
were like, gosh, like this was a really
critical thing and we got it right or we
got it wrong
that might be interesting for the group.
So when we first started the company, we
were more of a data infrastructure
company and we had like a serverless
Python runtime. We decided okay we want
to focus on image and video first of all
because we had a technical advantage in
the beginning. Some of our earliest
customers were were using image image
models at the time. So we decided to
double down on that technical advantage.
But also everyone pretended oh all AI
models is the same market you know same
companies will be running all the models
but als identified early that the buyers
of these models are going to be very
different therefore this is going to be
a completely different market so branded
uh we positioned the company as a
generative media platform. It's actually
a term we came up with or it was being
used but we we kind of owned it for
ourselves. So that positioning was also
really really important in in our
company journey and helped us with
marketing, helped us with getting like
really big people and now we are trying
to associate our brand more with
generative media and I think it's it's
working very well. Yeah, I think that's
that focus from what I've seen at fall
has been so critical and meanwhile, you
know, a lot of people talk about AI and
they're talking about, you know, broader
LLMs and otherwise. And so, it feels
really tempting and you see a lot of
other companies trying to be everything
to everyone.
>> Okay, we only have a couple minutes
left, but there's an elephant in the
room, which is that
>> Cursor and Anthropic have such an
incredible symbiotic relationship. I
think it's been publicly reported that
cursor is at least one of Anthropic's
you know largest customers. Anthropic
has really done an incredible job in the
code
vertical as well and and also has cloud
code. But it's interesting because
anthropic you have these partners on the
infrastructure side like AWS, you have
the application side like cursor. How do
you balance competition
versus collaboration?
>> We want to partner with companies like
cursor to drive the models forward and
push the capabilities of what is
actually possible with these models. And
so that's how we think about our
partnerships there. And then when you
look at some of the tools like cloud
code versus idees like cursor,
developers use these in complimentary
ways. and how can we actually continue
to build products that developers want
and will use alongside each other that
continue to push this space forward. At
the end of the day, we want to build
really strong models to advance forward
uh areas like coding and development.
And so that is really what we're focused
on. And one of the big things we care a
lot about is feedback and partnerships.
So, Curser has given us feedback on our
models in the coding area and had access
to our models before we released them
and been able to actually give us
feedback to meaningfully improve the
user experience on both of our ends.
Yeah, I think if you look at the core
mission of the two companies, you know,
Anthropic's mission is to build
artificial general intelligence that is
aligned with human values and
cursor's mission or I don't know what I
don't want to be on the record as you
know our one mission. We're broadly
interested in making tools that are as
useful as possible to software
developers. And
I think
what we want is to give people the best
model. And
whenever the models get better, we're
very happy because it means cursor
becomes more valuable to our users. And
you know, we've been really happy uh
that claudet is so good at code and
we're excited for that to continue.
Jacob, you said one thing earlier which
was that when we were talking about
usage based pricing and just value based
pricing, you said a lot of people are
getting 2x productivity, you know, plus
with with cursor.
What do you think I should be seeing
from our portfolio companies? Should we
be seeing two times more products
developed? Should we be seeing, you
know, half the headcount? Like what do
you think is the right rule of thumb
today?
I think
I think these tools
there are many people who
previously didn't write code and now
these models have allowed them to create
um great products and tools. And there
are many other people who are already
very experienced
at writing code, but these products can
accelerate them by, you know, helping
with the stuff that you maybe didn't
want to do before or just um
predicting your next edit and saving you
some time. And we want to serve both of
those demographics. And so I think to
pick a single
acceleration factor is difficult because
it depends
where you were previously. And I think
compared to many other companies in the
space,
we very much care about making something
that we want to use and that a
experienced software developer really
enjoys using.
So,
I wouldn't
I wouldn't venture a specific number,
but I would say that we really want to
be to make tools that that help everyone
regardless of your experience level and
that you should be seeing substantial
gains no matter where you are.
>> Yeah. And it's a hard it's a hard to
measure that productivity, but I imagine
at least seeing the continued usage and
adoption and the retention piece of it
is really critical.
Awesome. Well,
one last question to bring it totally
full circle with that and then we'll
take it to questions from the audience.
When speaking of retention and then how
all the metrics for AI companies are
totally different and the VC frameworks
are broken, what metric do you and each
of your respective business like what do
you care about most?
>> We care about big logos we bring to the
platform. That's definitely something we
pay attention to. One really interesting
thing that's happening is lots of more
AI native companies and newer companies
are actually spending more than like
bigger enterprises who are maybe not
super sure about putting things into
production but we want more of them. So
whenever the models are good enough for
them to say yes to a couple of the the
products that are currently being built
we are there for them. So big logos is
one thing we care about. We obviously
care about revenue and but we want to
make sure there's it's coming from
at least 30 to 35 different companies
rather than being concentrated at at the
top and retention matters a lot like we
care about churn all the time and we are
we are like doing all everything we can
to make sure people on the platform are
happy they are growing with us and if
they have spent elsewhere fair. We want
to bring that spend to the platform as
well. That's why we are hiring customer
success managers making sure we get a
bigger share of their let's call it
generate the media spend.
>> Wallet share.
>> Wallet share. Yeah.
I think we care the most about making a
product that we personally want to use
and obviously we care about revenue, we
care about users as well. I think you
know revenue is an indicator that maybe
lags behind users and users is a
indicator that lags behind of you know
the the fundamental like quality of the
product and the tool and so I think
the thing we care about most of all is
whether we personally want to use it or
use a new feature in our like day-to-day
life.
>> I know you work on the tab completion
model. Is there a dashboard like number
of tabs pressed on the platform that you
look at every day?
>> That's a great question and we
definitely track that but you know if
you make the suggestion longer like
maybe results in fewer suggestions
accepted but like more value. Yeah, it's
something we think about a lot.
>> Awesome. Well, thank you all for being
the building blocks that is paving the
way for so many incredible startups and
companies across all industries. And so
it's um awesome to have all three of
you. So it was great to be here.